thousands of people are rallying outside
the US and Israeli embassies in the
Jordanian Capital Aman it's a show of
support to Palestine following Israel's
air strike on alahi Baptist Hospital in
Gaza on Tuesday the Jordanian government
has declared 3 days of mourning several
Pro Palestinian marches are expected
across the country Islamic parties have
called for a general strike Osama bin
Javed joins us from Aman what's the
latest on your end
Osama
well as you've been seeing these scenes
where the protest uh number of
protesters have been swelling in the
last few hours we were there last night
at the Israeli Embassy as well where
there was a large presence of the police
who were trying to push back these
protesters trying to prevent them from
entering the Israeli Embassy compound uh
it is similar scenes there there's a
smaller protest at the US Embassy as
well but the but this is where the flash
pointed here in the uh Jordanian Capital
Aman where people want to go and vent
their anger at the Israeli Embassy we
spoke to a former Jordanian MP as well
last night she told us uh that this the
presence of the Israeli Embassy is
hurtful and in her words shameful for
jordanians and Palestinians living here
because they do not want to talk to
Israel while there are in their words
massacres being committed uh on
Palestinian soil you've heard from the
Jordanian foreign minister earlier as
well saying that this Summit which was
supposed to happen today in Aman between
the Americans the jordanians the
Palestinians and the Egyptians is no
longer going to take place here because
what he calls massacres that are being
committed by the Israeli government so
as you said this is not just a protest
in one spot there are sporadic protests
that are happening across Jordan a
country which is home to more than 2
million Palestinian refugees okay the
meeting between Arab leaders and Joe
Biden has been cancelled but surely
there must be some behind the scenes uh
diplomatic activity right what's going
on on that
front well we're hearing that there is
still lines of communication which are
open amongst all of these sides but
there's been very categoric rejection by
both the jordanians and the Egyptians
that they do not want the displacement
of another uh Mass migration from the
Palestinians from their lands into
either Jordan or Egyptian territories
and that is something where they are
clear that they do not want to open
their borders uh for these people to be
displaced because as I said there are
more than 2 million Palestinian refugees
still here who do not have the right to
return to Israel so this is going to be
one of the most difficult things that
getting these parties to agree on
whether if they want to take some
Palestinians from the other side or to
allow in Aid and that's where the two
sides uh seem to be uh stuck on where
the Arab governments have been asking
for a cessation of hostilities to allow
in a to the besieged Gaza Strip whereas
President Joe Biden has been pushing uh
the Arab leaders to use their influence
on Palestinians for hostage release and
maybe some sort of opening over the
borders for people to flee from Asama
bin Javed reporting from Aman in Jordan
thank you very much